- [Tim] All right, so
we ended the last video
by running the application,
and we saw the contents
of the three files printed to the console.
Now, you can always use
the Paths.get method,
and an example of that is on line 17.
You could have used it for
WorkingDirectoryFile.txt
and also as a SubdirectoryFile.txt files.
Either one of those
would have worked fine,
but when you know the
file's path will be relative
to your working directory,
it's actually more convenient
and, in fact, better practise
to get the working directory
using the FileSystems.Getdefault
method, and then
tacking on the filename using
the getPath method call.
Now, you have no way of
knowing which directory
a user will instal your application into,
so when you want to instal
files and store them
within your application
or with your application,
you can't specify absolute
paths in your code.
So you have to rely on
getting the working directory
for the application.
Now, you could have installed
or stored InstallPath
somewhere, but it's still better
to get the working
directory using methods,
because it's a foolproof way to do it.
Now, if a user created files,
absolute paths may make sense,
because usually, when the
user wants to open them,
they'll navigate to
them in the file system,
and in that case, you'll
have the absolute path.
Now, in addition to
FileSystems.Getdefault,
there's also another way to
get the working directory
for an application,
and you can use the dot
to represent the current
working directory.
Now, if you know your way
around the terminal or command
prompt, you'll now that the dot
always refers to the current
directory and both Windows
and Unix-based systems.
So let's actually print
out the working directory
using the code, so we're
gonna come down here
and start typing, and we'll do
filePath is equal to Paths.get,
and then parentheses and
double quote and the dot
or the period as they call it.
Dot it what we call it in Australia,
and we'll do a Sout,
filePath.toAbsolutePath.
So I'll run this, and
then I'll talk about that.
You can see we've got
the output showing here
right down the bottom
in the console output.
So I'm using the
Path.toAbsolutePath method call
to get the absolute path
represented by the path instance,
and you saw that we can see
the AbsolutePath printed
to the console, noting that
it also appends the full stop
to the path, and that'll
be a backslash, full stop
or period, if you're running on Windows.
Now, we're gonna come
back to this in a minute.
So what we can try and do
is use this dot or period
to build a path rather than calling
the FileSystems.Getdefault method.
So let's change the way
that we're building the path
to the SubdirectoryFile.txt file.
So we come back here.
At the moment, we've got this
Path filePath =
FileSystems.getDefault().getPath,
so in fact, we can actually change that.
I'm gonna take a copy of
that, duplicate the line
by Command + D or Control + D,
and I'm gonna comment one copy out,
and what I'm going to
do is change this method
or the method call to Paths.get,
and in terms of the folder it's going to,
we're going to start by putting a period
in double quotes there first,
comma, and then we've got
our files and then the
SubdirectoryFile.txt.
So here, we're actually passing three path
segments to the get method on line 16.
First, we're passing
the current directory,
which will resolve to the
IntelliJ project directory.
Then we're passing the files directory,
which is the subfolder, and then finally,
we're passing the filename itself.
So you do have to pass
them in the correct order.
So if you were to pass the
filename before the files
directory, then we'd get
something completely different.
We might get something on
Windows along the lines
of D:\\SubdirectoryFile.txt\files
or something like that.
So it obviously would be
wrong, because the actual
filename is appearing before the files.
So again, this order is very important
as to how you go about calling that.
And just to confirm this,
let's run this to make sure
we get the same results.
So we've still got our working directory.
We've got our files
within the subdirectory.
That's still working as
well, and obviously we've got
the file in some random
location in the file system, so
clearly the change that's been
made on 16 is still working.
Now, of course you can build paths
relative to any directory.
It doesn't actually have to
be the current directory,
but keep in mind that a root
node has to be included.
So when we use this path here on line 18
to get access to the OutThere.txt file,
we actually specify the absolute
path as a single string,
and obviously that's
the complete path there,
in my case, on a Mac, but
we can also split that up
into pieces too if we want to do that.
So if we're doing something
on a PC, we could...
I'll comment this out.
We could do something like...
We could try D:\\ as the first argument.
Then we could put Examples,
and then the OutThere.txt.
And that would build the path that way,
and from a Mac point of view,
we could do something like,
if we wanted to do three arguments,
we could do Programmes,
that's the first...
The /Volumes/Production/Courses/Programs,
then a comma.
As the second one, we could put
/JavaPrograms, and the third
argument would be the name
of the file, OutThere.txt.
So if we run that, we should
find that that still works
for us, and you can see, we've
still got the example here,
File in some random
location on the file system,
so that's clearly still working.
So we've just broken it up into
three distinct areas there,
and we could have broken that
up even more if we wanted to,
and again, on line 19, that's
the Windows equivalent.
And getting back to down here
where we printed out the path,
the absolute path of
the working directory,
and then there's this slash dot
or slash period that was appended to it.
As I mentioned previously,
that period or dot,
full stop, means the directory,
so appending the slash
dot is actually redundant.
We don't actually need that in the path,
so depending on how you
built paths, you could then
end up with something
weird, so we could end up
with something like in Windows terms...
If we come back up here,
if we left that in there,
it'd be something like D:\Examples\,
dot, slash, and if there's a subfolder.
So clearly, that wouldn't be right
with that extra dot there.
It's just actually redundant.
And by the way, if I
change that to dot, dot,
to subfolder, and slash, dot, dot,
and then directory,
well, that's actually still a valid path,
two dots with two periods.
That means the parent directory.
So, in this particular
case, in that example,
the path ends up being
D:\Examples\directory.
Now, the reason for that is,
so we've got D:\Examples\subfolder,
and the two dots means move
up to the previous subfolder,
in this case, moving back
to the examples folder,
then directory.
We'd then navigate down
to the directory subfolder from Examples.
So it's just a way to
move back up one level
to wherever the parent folder
was for the current folder.
A little bit confusing, but in practise,
it's easier than probably
how I'm describing it.
But I think you'd agree,
looking at that example
with the two dots, it's actually
better and more readable
to not have those dots, the period,
or the two periods in them.
You can remove these path segments
using the path.normalize method.
Let's actually see how that
would work in practise,
so we could do something like Path
path2 is equal to
FileSystems.getDefault.getPath,
and we're going to navigate
to the same folder for
SubdirectoryFile.txt,
so I'm going to use the
period in double quotes,
files in double quotes,
two periods in double quotes,
and then the file SubdirectoryFile.txt.
And actually, I want another one in there.
I want to put another
files in there like so.
So now we've done that, believe it or not,
that entire path will still
get us to SubdirectoryFile.txt.
So we're starting on the
current working directory.
So the single period
there in double quotes,
on line 27, that returns
the working directory,
so effectively, that's
redundant, and does nothing.
Then we move to the files subdirectory.
Moving on, we move back up a level,
because we're using the two periods there,
which navigates back to the parent,
which will be back to the
working directory in this case.
Then we move down again
to the files subfolder,
and then we've got the
actually SubdirectoryFile.txt
path, which is the actual filename itself.
So let's just confirm that that works.
So we're going to do a printout
path2.normalize method call,
dot, toAbsolutePath, so we can do that,
and let's also do a printFile
just to make sure it works,
path2.normalize.
So let's run that.
You can see there,
that's now the full path,
that's the path to our file,
and you can see that that still worked,
and obviously file is within subdirectory,
that's the text which is
actually within that programme,
so clearly that's worked okay.
So basically, the point here
is that when you're getting
a path from a user or some
other source, it's generally
a good idea to normalise
the path before using it.
All right, so now that you've got an idea
of how to build paths to files
in the current directory,
in a path relative to another directory
or to anywhere on the file
system using an absolute path,
let's now briefly discuss why
the path interface came about.
So the java.io.File class
also points to files on the file system.
So why did the Java developers
introduce another class
that effectively does
the same thing in Java 7?
So the file class, while useful,
though, has a few problems.
And specifically, those
problems are firstly,
many methods in that class
don't throw exceptions
or don't provide specific
error messages when they fail.
An example would be
the File.delete method,
which returns a boolean.
If the deletion fails,
you can't actually tell
if it was because the file didn't exist
or the application doesn't have permission
to delete the file or some other reason.
So unfortunately, the
method doesn't provide
that level of information.
Now, the File.rename method
works differently on different platforms.
And Java's supported to
be portable, as you know,
across platforms, meaning
that the code shouldn't have
to worry about which operating
system it's running on.
Another problem, there's no
support for symbolic links,
and a symbolic link is a
kind of file that points
to another file, sort of
like a shortcut in Windows,
if you're familiar with that.
Now, they're often used with networks
to point to a remote location.
Unfortunately, the file class
doesn't understand those symbolic links.
The file class doesn't provide a way
to get metadata about a file,
information such as its
permissions, its owner,
or other security information.
The metadata that it does provide
is retrieved inefficiently as well.
Now, many of the methods
don't perform well
when working with lots of data.
For example, if you use the file class
to request a list of all the files
in a directory and there
are a lot of files,
the method can actually
hang, believe it or not.
And lastly, the last error,
since the file class doesn't
understand symbolic links,
walking through a directory
tree is therefore problematic.
So I'll end the video here.
In the next video, let's have
a talk about how java.nio
solves these problems,
and also how it splits
the functionality that
was in the file class
into several different
classes and interfaces.
See you in the next video.